Dear Kim:

This past August, I completed a PhD at The Open University's Knowledge
Media Institute.  My thesis was titled "Peer Produced Peer Learning: A
Mathematics Case Study".  It deals with my work on the collaborative
websites planetmath.org and peeragogy.org -- in short, it is an
investigation of the potential for computer-mediated peer learning in
mathematics.

PlanetMath has been around since 2001 as a public resource: like
Wikipedia, but dedicated to mathematics.  In 2003, it was the subject of
a masters thesis written at Virginia Tech by my colleague Aaron Krowne.
A big part of my own project was to rebuild the ten-year-old website,
updating the infrastructure and adding new learning-relevant features,
like problem sets, to the encyclopedia and forum that comprised the
original offering.

In the user studies I conducted, I collected a lot of feedback about how
the site could be further improved.  Some of this is basic web stuff,
for instance, a responsive layout.  There are also more advanced ideas,
like individually-tailored diagnostics and recommendations.  Indeed, I
prototyped some related recommendation tools for an EU project I was
working on while finishing the PhD.  That project used a similar Drupal
+ Semantic Web infrastructure -- but I didn't have a chance to integrate
these features into the PlanetMath site yet.

I'm now a researcher at Goldsmiths College in the Computing department,
specifically, in the Computational Creativity group, where I'm looking
at social creativity in another EU project.  That project also has a
mathematics focus, and it is giving me even more ideas about things to
do with PlanetMath!

I will be at Goldsmiths for at least 2 more years, and I'd like to
make progress with PlanetMath during this time.  Ideally this would
involve hiring a Drupal programmer who could make quick work of the
development plan I've drafted, with some guidance from me.

I requested a bid from the professional Drupal shop we worked with on
the earlier EU grant, and the figure they quoted to me was £12000 for a
month of work.  I'd estimate that half a year of high-quality work would
be sufficient to:

 - bring the site to a professional standard,
 - integrate novel features like personalised recommendations,
 - and realise one or more of the business models we've sketched.

This would bring the total cost for programming support to £72000.
PlanetMath is also currently involved with a proposal to the Sloan
Foundation focused on retro-digitisation of public domain mathematics
content: this would underwrite my own involvement and contribute to the
long-term attractiveness and utility of the site.

The proposed focused project would build on over a decade of practical
work and would be supported by ongoing research, leading to a truly
transformative learning resource.  I'm appending a brief use case to
show more specifically what we have in mind.  The project as a whole
seems to match the Nuffield Foundation's priorities in mathematics
education.  Do you think I could make an appointment with you to talk
over a potential application for funding?

There is one concern that I hope is not an insurmountable obstacle.
PlanetMath is incorporated in the US, where it has non-profit status.
We are currently looking into creating a sister not-for-profit here in
the UK.  For now I'm assuming that this is a prerequisite for getting
funding here, but this is one of the things I'd like to ask about.

Sincerely yours,
Joe Corneli

Illustrative PlanetMath Use Case

Primary Actor: A student, Madeleine, who is trying to learn
multivariable calculus.

Main Success Scenario:

1. Madeleine is enrolled in an advanced calculus course at
university. She learns about PlanetMath from her instructor who
recommends it as a place for extra practice with homework
problems. Madeleine creates an account, fills in basic profile
information, and starts solving problems that the system supplies based
on the information she added.

2. The problems that the system supplies are automatically linked to
reference resources in PlanetMath’s encyclopedia. This expository
material gives Madeleine easy access to the relevant mathematical
concepts, examples, and hints needed for solving the increasingly
difficult practice problems. However, she eventually runs into a problem
where neither the automatically supplied information, nor her current
knowledge of the subject, is sufficient.  She’s completely stuck on a
problem having to do with water flow in a pipe!  Madeleine attaches a
help request to the problem: “I understand that I have to use the two
variables x and y to solve for water flow, but I don’t understand what
the boundary limits of the equations would be: do I have to convert it
to polar coordinates?”

3. This request is noticed by Natalie, a mathematics graduate student
who regularly looks at PlanetMath's Twitter feed showing “requests for
help with advanced calculus.”  She sees that the reference resources
linked to Madeleine’s problem are probably not sufficient, and that
Madeleine’s idea about using polar coordinates would work.  Natalie
makes some changes to the encyclopedia indicating that converting to
polar coordinates can be necessary in pipe flow problems, and sketches
an example.  Natalie then checks that this information links to
Madeleine’s problem correctly, and alerts Madeleine to the changes. With
this new information, Madeleine is not only able to solve her problem,
but can proceed with confidence: she had the right idea after all!
